# Preface

I started this collection of interview questions near the tail end of my first
job. At the time, I was just gearing up to start my hunt for my second job.

Many of the questions I added then were fairly run-of-the-mill ones that aimed
for equally run-of-the-mill answers. Questions like:

- "What's your stack?"
- "What will I be expected to accomplish in the first N months?"
- "How do you measure engineer growth?"

To some extent, I've kept up this habit of adding new questions in preparation
for resuming my job hunt at the tail end of each of my jobs. As time progressed,
however, several things started changing.

First, these questions started becoming **informed** by my experiences. As I
switched to my third, fourth, and fifth job, the questions I came up with became
responses to my past experiences -- formulated specifically to hunt for ways to
keep the things I liked about my then-current job and team, while improving on
the aspects that I didn't like or that held me back.

Second, these questions started becoming more **nuanced**. The unfortunate
nature of being a working adult -- and maybe an adult in general -- is that
people won't always tell you the truth. At best, you get a wishy-washy
non-answer -- a dodge to avoid giving an answer that's unflattering or
compromising ("how many women are in your org?"). At worst, you get actively
punished for asking; imagine the company that rejects your profile for asking
about salary ("he/she/they have the wrong priorities" -- pure capitalist idiocy,
of course). The farther I progressed in my career, the more nuanced the answers
I wanted, and I started trying to "design" questions to best measure "latent"
aspects of teams that hiring managers either could not or simply refused to
elaborate on.

For better or worse, the question bank had grown into something slightly more
complex, with some questions having -- sometimes **requiring** -- sizeable
summaries or explanations of **how** to use them.

This "book" is my response to that complexity. My aim is that, by collating
these questions into a tidier format and lending structure to them, they can
become more useful to you. I can only hope that I might achieve that!

This "book" is **heavily** work-in-progress, and I'll be working on it out in
the open like this. Feel free to follow along! It'll be fun.

## If this book is helpful to you...

Feel free to [buy me a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/jinnovation) as
thanks.

<script data-name="BMC-Widget" data-cfasync="false" src="https://cdnjs.buymeacoffee.com/1.0.0/widget.prod.min.js" data-id="jinnovation" data-description="Support me on Buy me a coffee!" data-message="" data-color="#40DCA5" data-position="Right" data-x_margin="18" data-y_margin="18"></script>

Let's be clear though. I'm a software engineer; we make enough money as-is. By
no means should you feel obligated to donate to me.

If you decide not to, however -- which is totally fine -- my only ask is that
you pay the learnings forward. The next time a clueless undergrad from your alma
mater cold-DMs you on LinkedIn asking for advice...help them. Many years ago,
you were probably in their exact position.

## Contributing

This book and its contents are free and open source. You can find the source on
[GitHub][repo]. Feel free to contribute any questions that you've found useful
in your job hunt or anything other insight.

[repo]: https://github.com/jinnovation/interview-candidate-questions
